So this is a slight example of what we
just talked about, that fruit array is at
the top with our five elements of strings,
and then our sliced fruit which gives
us back pear and apple is that
second variable called sliced fruit.
On the left hand side, those red boxes,
those kinda represent how our
spliced fruit variable is keeping
track of its information.
And then the blue boxes at the bottom are
our representation of the actual array,
the fruit array as a whole.
So you'll notice that the indexes
on the bottom 0, 1, 2, 3,
4 are talking about each index
of each element in the array.
And we said we wanted elements 1 to 3.
Something I like to do
to think about like,
how those indexes actually
organize themselves.
You just slide those numbers to the like
dividing area between the elements.
So if you think like it starts at 1,
which is the left of pair here,
go until we're 3 is which is to the left
of kumquat, you see pear and apple,
which is the array that we're
printing to the the screen.
Cool, but so our pointer here is like,
okay, I'm slice,
I'm gonna carve myself
out of an existing array.
And my starting point, is whatever
that first element of the array is.
So my pointer where I'm storing my data
starts at element 1, which is pear.
And then I know that I'm a length 2,
cuz you told me to cut out 2 elements,
pair and apple.
But because I'm associated
with this underlying array,
there's a couple elements of extra space.
So my capacity is four.
But every time we're
talking about a slice,
it knows about these three pieces of
data and knows where it's starting.
Where does my data live?
How long am I?
How many elements do I have?
And what's the capacity
I have to work with,
before I need to allocate more memory.
Hop back into the code and talk about
how we modify the length of a slice.
So right now, if our capacity is 4, and we
wanna add stuff to it, how do we do that?
If everything is like set up in memory,
what are some methods we can use to
get around the restriction there.
And the first one we're
gonna look at is append.
We'll clean that up just a little bit.
So let's say we have our fruit array.
I'm gonna bring back a slice.
Okay, we have a slice
called a splicedFruit.
And let's say we want to add.
Fruit to our array.
We need to use the built
in function append, and
append is going to take a few arguments.
The first is, what is our starting slice.
What slice are we starting with?
And we're starting with splicedFruit.
And then we can add on additional
fruits that we want to append or slice.
Cantaloupe, with an e.
Cherries, so if we were to add cantaloupe
and cherries to our splicedFruit array.
And let's go ahead and
print out all of the information of.
SplicedFruit.
And I'm also gonna print out fruitToAdd.
So we're gonna look at both of
these slices in the console.
So you'll see our first one there
just has the 2, like we saw before.
And our second one now has the 2
that we sliced out of the array, and
the additional 2 that we just appended on.
Just for kicks,
let's go ahead and print out.
The length of our new array.
And we'll also print out the capacity.
Another interesting thing to note,
is that FruitToAdd here isn't just giving
me back the two elements I added on.
Slightly poorly named variable,
there should probably be total fruit or
something along those lines.
But it's gonna give me back the original
array and anything I've added to it, and
give me just the whole slice back
of everything that I want in there.
So I print out the length and
capacity of FruitToAdd.
You'll see that they're 4, and then the
capacity is 4 which makes sense, right.
Cuz we're working with that array that
had a capacity of 4 to begin with.
We filled up all 4 slots.
Goes like cool, I've allocated all the
memory, we're good to go, let's move on.
What happens if I add
a third element here.
Lemon.
So now we're reaching five
elements in this array,
even though our capacity
said four to begin with.
So I'm gonna print this out again.
So no we've got a length of 5 and
a capacity of 8, which seems curious.
So we started with.
Let's go ahead and print out the same
information for both of our arrays.
And then let's do
splicedFruit here.
Cool, so our first line of console
logs there is we have pear apple, and
then pear, apple,
cantaloupe, cherries lemon,
the two different slices
that we're talking about.
The second output says 2 and 4, so
we're saying the length of our first
splicedFruit array is 2,and the capacity
of our splicedFruit array here is 4.
On the next line, we're saying that
the length of our total fruit array is 5,
which makes sense, but the capacity is 8.
So you'll notice that Go
hasn't just been like, okay,
cool, I'm gonna add two additional
elements to your array.
I'm actually gonna double
the capacity that I had,
based on the slice that you
passed in the first place.
So if our capacity of splicedFruit was
4 which we see here, when it's like,
I don't know how much
more memory you want,
it takes the capacity of that array
we're appending to and doubles it.
And it's like okay,
now take up as much space as you want.
I have now doubled your array length.
And then if we continue to add more
elements here, it's gonna allocate as much
memory as necessary, by using
the capacity of our original right here.